Totemic Design Document



Totemics design and ethics:

Totemic does not have a specific design, apart from Totems. Instead, Totemic brings things from many different cultures.
Guis are discouraged, and in-game creation/usage is tried to be used as much as possible.
Game-play is the most important aspect, if its not fun, why bother?


Music:

Music is a important part of Totemics design, it is used to tier things in the mod, and allow things to be more efficient.
Music comes in the form of instruments, there are two basic differentiating parts of them, Items and Blocks.
All musical items and blocks have more than one use, for example the Flute will attract nearby Villagers and Animals.
It is measured in "Musical Melody"


Instruments:

Drum: Will be able to do small amounts of damage, and will be automatable (but obviously, less efficient if automated).
Harp: No details yet, but will more than likely be added, in the future.
Synthesizer: Redstone Flux compatibility, works like the drum, but creates more "Musical Melody".
Wind Chimes: Makes a large amount of musical melody, but does it randomly ONLY.
Flute: Makes low amounts of melody, but can be used easily. Also attracts nearby villagers and animals.


Totems:

Totems are the main part of the mod.
Totems are a multiblock vertical structure, of a Totem intelligence (This runs all the calls and code) and the Totem Sockets.
Totems Heads are placed in the sockets, and these say the desired effects.
They are powered by plant essence, which is made through the draining Totem, which reduces the plant stages of nearby plants to create the essence.
The effects of Totems, on certain plays can be more efficient, if they have things that are marked as a Totem Item in the code.
For example, the armour, baubles, and a few ohter things.
Totems will needed to be awakened with a Ceremony, this decides how strong the Totem is, how efficient the Totem is, and what totem effects it can do.
Nearby musical melody will make totems more efficient also.
Totems are not efficient at all at the start.


Plants:

Plants are a integral part of Totemic, there is 4 new plants added.
Certain plants drain better under certain circumstances. 

Moonglow: A plant of the night, will make more essence at midnight.
Lotus: Just like a Lily Pad, and it will drain better in the rain.
Blood Wart: Bloody Nether Wart, it drains VERY well in the nether.
Fungal plant (forgot the official name) Drains more efficiently under many circumstances, being near other mushrooms, rain, and mycelium under it.
And more to come.


Ceremonies: 

A way to preform a desired effect in the world, through a ceremonial process.
To say which effect you want to do, first you need to place Plants in all 4 directions, 3 blocks away from the Ceremony Intelligence.
So if you have 4 Moonglows, then it will preform a ceremony that makes it become night (A very late game Ceremony)
To preform a ceremony, you must do a few things. Playing music is integral, a certain amount of Musical Melody needs to be reached, for the Ceremony to go through.
Dancing around the Ceremony (As in, running around it) also helps preform it, and is also important.
Fireworks will also come towards it, but only a few can be used, and the rest will be useless.
Having large fires will also help a lot, and bonfires also (When I code them, one day, they will cost fuel, but be very good for the ceremony)
Some ceremonies may also take Items, but most don't.