Totemic Tier Document:

Tier 0: Vanilla

This is the stage of the mod which is that of Vanilla, you have materials, redstone, iron, maybe a diamond or two, and also a farm with things.
In this stage you can craft a basic staff, which has little functions and is not specific, you can also craft a whittling knife.
Totemic will have a few things which will help you progress through this tier, at a later date.


Tier 1: Basic instruments and Totem ceremonies

You can create the Red Cedar wood here, you carve your totems out of this.
This is the stage where you can start making things properly in the mod, 
Music Available Basic Drums, Stick Flute.
Things available to create in world: Totems and the Basic Ceremony Intelligence.
This stage will require a dedicated farm setup for many things.
You will be able to create a very basic ceremony intelligence, this will allow you to awaken your totems, and also do basic crafting.
The Totems you have will be limited, and be very inefficient.
You will also be able to craft basic Head dresses, which will help you with working with Totems and Ceremonies.

Tier 2: Progression through Totemic

You will be able to infuse your instruments here with powers through crafting ceremonies, making them have additional effects (So the drums will be great for mobtraps and react with redstone, and the flute will attract mobs)
These advanced instruments will allow you to also be able to do very late game Ceremonies, doing strong effects.

Tier 3: Greater powers

This is where the player gets the great powers themselves, through the use of many things.
Item's created from this tier are through harder to do crafting through Ceremonies.
Totemist Armour will become available, this will be crafted using coloured feathers, Sylvan Wood, your old head dress, and also through a ceremony, this is very late game and is only to make things like Totems significantly stronger.
The Totem Beaded Satchel will be able to be created, this will allow you to bind Totems to players directly, this will become very inefficient though, and if things go wrong, you may suffer a little.
This is also where baubles become available, such as the one which makes you do more damage with the less armour, and the worse your tool is, and the Hei-Tiki.

Tier 4: Withered Totemist

Everything needs to have a counterpart, right?
Withered Totemists are the counterparts, and the way for you to beat normal Totemists.
Withered Totemists are designed around the fact of everything has a cost, if you are a withered Totemist, you will wither around nearby plants to gain effects.
Crafting this stuff needs ceremonies that create Withered Wood, which can be used to create the withered tools.
You will get special armour, that will kill nearby plants, but give you incredible powers, and also they will be able to nullify and remove some of the powers of normal Totemists.
Shame Poles will be able to be created, these are a way to 'curse' players, and their totem poles in a sense, you can cause their totems to go insane, or cause problems for the players.
Withered Puppets will be able to be created, they will mimic the players movements, attacking monsters and block breaking/placing, allowing for massive tasks to be done.
This is FAR from a replacement for normal Totemist things, normal Totemist things are still cheaper to create, and also do not have a running cost.
